Exercise 1.4: File Handling in Python
Learning Goals

●	Use files to store and retrieve data in Python

Reflection Questions

1.	Why is file storage important when you’re using Python? What would happen if you didn’t store local files?

File storage is important in Python because it allows us to save data permanently. If we didn’t store local files, any data we work with during a program’s run would be lost once the program is closed.

2.	In this Exercise you learned about the pickling process with the pickle.dump() method. What are pickles? In which situations would you choose to use pickles and why? 

Pickles in Python refer to objects that are serialized (converted into a format that can be stored in a file). The pickle.dump() method saves Python objects, like dictionaries and lists, into a binary file, and pickle.load() retrieves them. You would use pickles when you need to save complex Python data structures (like lists or dictionaries) and load them back. This is very useful for saving program data or settings that you want to reuse later.

3.	In Python, what function do you use to find out which directory you’re currently in? What if you wanted to change your current working directory?

To find out which directory you are currently in, you can use the os.getcwd() function in Python. If you want to change the directory, you can use os.chdir() and provide the path you want to switch to.

4.	Imagine you’re working on a Python script and are worried there may be an error in a block of code. How would you approach the situation to prevent the entire script from terminating due to an error?

I would use a try-except block. This would allow me to “catch” the error and handle it without stopping the entire script. I would put the code I'm unsure about in the try section, and in the except section, I'd write what should happen if an error occurs. This way, the program can keep running even if there is an error.

5.	You’re now more than halfway through Achievement 1! Take a moment to reflect on your learning in the course so far. How is it going? What’s something you’re proud of so far? Is there something you’re struggling with? What do you need more practice with? Feel free to use these notes to guide your next mentor call. 

I'm proud of being able to write my first scripts, handle user inputs abd store data in files. However, I feel like I still need more practice to be confident in saying that I have mastered error handling or working with file directories.